Doc for query-builder (#1357)
SEKOIA-IO/documentation: docs/xdr/features/investigate/query_builder.md

# Query Builder (beta)

> Start exploring your data with the Query Builder. Hunt for threats, get analytics, create reports. Query Builder is a simple form which allows you to build queries to explore your data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start exploring your data with the Query Builder. Hunt for threats, get analytics, create reports. The Query Builder is a simple form which allows you to build queries to explore your data. 
```

> Using a SQL syntax, you can now aggregate your data to extract new insights. Query Builder also offer the possibility to visualize data through different kind of charts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this form, you can now aggregate your data to extract new insights. The Query Builder also offers the possibility to visualize data through different kinds of charts.
```

> At the moment, only the `Events` table is available but more tables are coming: Alerts, Cases, Assets, CTI and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment, only the `Events` table is available but more tables are coming.
```

![query builder](/assets/operation_center/events/query-builder.png){: style="max-width:100%"}

## Build your query

Select a table to query in the `From` clause and use `Add clause` button to refine your query.

![clauses](/assets/operation_center/events/qb-clauses.png){: style="max-width:100%"}

> The Query Builder comes with standard SQL clauses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Query Builder comes with the following clauses:
```

| Aggregation type | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Average | Average of a set |
| Count | Count the number of rows in a set |
| Min | Find the minimum value in a set |
| Max | Find the maximum value in a set |
| Sum | Sum of a set|
| Unique count | Count unique values of a set |

### Operators

Use the following operators to define your conditions in the `WHERE` clause.

| Operator | Description |
| --- | --- |
| is | Equals |
| is not | Not equals |
| starts with | Starts with the specified value. `starts with` is case-sensitive |
| does not start with | Does not start with the specified value. `does not start with` is case-sensitive |
| ends with | Ends with the specified value. `ends with` is case-sensitive |
| does not end with | Does not end with the specified value. `does not end with` is case-sensitive |
| contains | Contains the specified value. `contains` is case-sensitive |
| does not contain | Does not contain the specified value. `does not contain` is case-sensitive |
| exists | Has a value |
| does not exists | Does not have a value |
| < | Strictly less than |
| <= | Less than or equal to |
| > | Strictly more than |
| >= | More than or equal to |

> 

Reviewer 2: maybe you could add the within operator

Author: Done

!!! note

>     Operators `starts with`, `does not start with`, `ends with`, `does not end with`, `contains`, `does not contain` are case-sensitive

Reviewer: All operators are case sensitive (including `is` and `is not`). I feel like listing them may suggest that some of them are not.

Author: Done

## Run your query

Click on `Run query` to perform a search.

![results](/assets/operation_center/events/qb-results.png){: style="max-width:100%"}

You can display your results in a table or select a chart type (Pie chart or Vertical bar chart).

!!! warning
    Due to the important amount of logs ingested, the Query Builder has **rate limits** to protect the platform's health.

    There are 3 **rate limits**:

>     1. **Maximum number of processed rows:** At the moment the maximum value is 10 000. We are working on increasing this limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. **Maximum number of processed rows:** At the moment the maximum value is 10 000. ```

Use the pie chart to show how a total amount is divided between distinct groups. We have limited the max number of values in pie chart to 40 to ensure a correct display.

- In `Label` field, select the column you want to use as a label.
- In `Value` field, select the column you want to use as a value.

If possible, we will try to automatically select adequate columns.

### Vertical chart

![bar chart](/assets/operation_center/events/qb-bar-chart.png){: style="max-width:100%"}

Use the vertical bar chart to compare values between different groups. We have limited the max number of values in vertical chart to 80 to ensure a correct display.

- In `X-axis`, select the column you want to use. This column can be of any type.
- In `Y-axis`, select the column you want to use. This column must be a numeric value.

## Save your query

You can save your query to re-execute it later.
Choose a title for your query and click on the `Save` button.

Your last result is also saved and will be displayed when you open your saved query.

!!! note 
    - Saved queries are visible to all users of your community.<br/>

>     - In MSSP multi-tenancy, saved queries are not visible in sub or parent communities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - In MSSP multi-tenancy, saved queries are not visible in sub-communities.
```
